---
goal_meta_link_text: UN metadata
reporting_status: inprogress
data_non_statistical: false
data_show_map: false
graph_type: line
source_active_1: true
source_url_text_1: Link to source
source_active_2: false
source_url_text_2: Link to Source
source_active_3: false
source_url_3: Link to source
source_active_4: false
source_url_text_4: Link to source
source_active_5: false
source_url_text_5: Link to source
source_active_6: false
source_url_text_6: Link to source
published: false
title: Untitled
indicator_name: >-
  Efficiency of agricultural production measured by Total Factor Productivity in
  the UK, 1973 to 2018
national_geographical_coverage: UK
computation_units: Index (1973 = 100)
source_organisation_1: Defra
source_url_1: >-
  https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/total-factor-productivity-of-the-agricultural-industry
---
**Trend description:** Overall productivity is driven by both the output and input components. Total factor productivity was 53% higher in 2018 than it was in 1973. There has been an overall long-term increase driven by both increased outputs and a fall in inputs, although the separate trends (see indicators E2 and E3) have followed different patterns. There is considerable annual variation, this variation being mainly driven by variation in output volumes.
