---
goal_meta_link_text: UN metadata
reporting_status: inprogress
data_non_statistical: false
data_show_map: false
graph_type: line
source_active_1: true
source_url_text_1: Link to source
source_active_2: false
source_url_text_2: Link to Source
source_active_3: false
source_url_3: Link to source
source_active_4: false
source_url_text_4: Link to source
source_active_5: false
source_url_text_5: Link to source
source_active_6: false
source_url_text_6: Link to source
published: false
title: ''
indicator_name: Changes in landscape and waterscape character
national_geographical_coverage: England
---
**Short description:** This is a composite indicator of changes in landscape and waterscape character in England. It includes 3 key aspects: changes in landscape character in National Character Areas across all of England; changes in the public’s perceptions of landscape character and quality; and, changes in environmental outcomes from our Designated Landscapes (National Parks and Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty). The indicator will build on an approach that has been developed to assess the impacts of agri-environment schemes on landscape in 159 National Character Areas, including aspects such as field patterns and boundaries, traditional farm buildings, semi-natural habitats, agricultural land use, dark skies, historic features and woodland/tree cover. National Character Area profiles include Statements of Environmental Opportunity, which can be utilised to monitor changes in landscape character. Further work is required to include the consideration of waterscapes in this approach. We will also develop the ability to assess Designated Landscapes using this method. Information on changes in the public’s perceptions of landscapes will be gathered by Natural England using a new people and nature survey that will begin collecting data in 2019/20. This will build on the Monitor of Engagement with the Natural Environment (MENE) and incorporate feedback from stakeholders as part of a strategic review. Extent and condition of Designated Landscapes will be monitored through the Monitoring Environmental Outcomes in Protected Landscapes dataset.