---
goal_meta_link_text: UN metadata
reporting_status: inprogress
data_non_statistical: false
data_show_map: false
graph_type: line
source_active_1: true
source_url_text_1: Link to source
source_active_2: false
source_url_text_2: Link to Source
source_active_3: false
source_url_3: Link to source
source_active_4: false
source_url_text_4: Link to source
source_active_5: false
source_url_text_5: Link to source
source_active_6: false
source_url_text_6: Link to source
published: false
title: ''
indicator_name: >-
  Condition of heritage features including designated geological sites and
  scheduled monuments
national_geographical_coverage: England
source_url_1: 'https://designatedsites.naturalengland.org.uk/SiteSearch.aspx'
source_organisation_1: Natural England
data_footnote: >-
  Note: The first pie-chart shows the condition of 1,326 geological and
  geomorphological heritage features that have currently been assessed with
  12.3% of features being assessed since 2013 and 64.3% being assessed since
  2009; 21% of features are still to be assessed. The second pie-chart shows the
  condition of 19,848 Scheduled Monuments; of these, 21.4% have been subject to
  new or updated condition assessments since 2013 and 36.6% have been assessed
  since 2009; 2% of features are still to be assessed.  Trend description: In
  total, 60% of all designated geological features have been assessed as in
  favourable condition. A further 8% have been assessed as unfavourable but
  recovering. Approximately 1% have been destroyed or partially destroyed. In
  total, 85% of all Scheduled Monuments are considered as being in optimal or
  generally satisfactory condition, whereas 13% are considered as either being
  in a generally unsatisfactory condition or having extensive significant
  problems.
---
**Short description:** This indicator consists of 2 measures that describe the condition of geological and geomorphological heritage features of Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) and the condition of Scheduled Monuments. Heritage features enable us to understand how our landscapes have been formed and are an important aspect of landscape character that significantly contribute to our enjoyment and appreciation of the natural beauty. We have a particular responsibility to conserve heritage features of designated sites. The indicator will use information from SSSI condition assessments and information which supports the production of the annual Heritage at Risk Register. All geological (including geomorphological) features designated as SSSIs have first been subject to rigorous and systematic scientific assessment leading to their selection as nationally important Geological Conservation Review (GCR) sites. There are currently 1,150 SSSIs in England designated wholly, or in part, for their geology, encompassing 1673 features identified through the GCR. Many SSSIs contain more than one geological heritage feature. Monuments designated as Scheduled Monuments have been recognised by the Secretary of State as being nationally important. For a monument to be considered of national importance its surviving features, above and/or below the surface of the land or sea bed, must have a particular significance that relates to its historic, traditional, architectural, artistic and/or archaeological interest. There are currently 19,848 Scheduled Monuments in England.