---
goal_meta_link_text: UN metadata
reporting_status: inprogress
data_non_statistical: false
data_show_map: false
graph_type: line
source_active_1: true
source_url_text_1: Link to source
source_active_2: false
source_url_text_2: Link to Source
source_active_3: false
source_url_3: Link to source
source_active_4: false
source_url_text_4: Link to source
source_active_5: false
source_url_text_5: Link to source
source_active_6: false
source_url_text_6: Link to source
published: false
title: ''
indicator_name: Raw material consumption
national_geographical_coverage: UK
source_url_1: >-
  http://sciencesearch.defra.gov.uk/Default.aspx?Menu=Menu&Module=More&Location=None&ProjectID=20306&FromSearch=Y&Publisher=1&SearchText=ev0279&SortString=ProjectCode&SortOrder=Asc&Paging=10%20-%20Description
---
**Short description:** This indicator shows trends in the amount of raw material consumption per capita and the amount of GVA per unit of raw material consumption. These indicators give a proxy for the scale of our environmental impact, while helping identify how efficiently natural resources are being used and the extent to which wealth creation is decoupled from consumption of materials.

**Trend description:** The average material footprint per capita in England (excluding fossil fuels) increased by 3.0% between 2001 and 2017. It rose steadily between 2001 and 2007, before declining sharply during the recession. It rose again to 2015 and fell back in 2016 and 2017, to 14.7 tonnes per capita. Within the overall total there have been increases in per capita consumption of both biomass and non-metallic mineral materials between 2001 and 2017, whilst for metal ores there has been a slight decrease. In 2017, England generated 15.9% more economic value than in 2001 (measured by Gross Value Added (GVA) per unit of raw material consumed (RMC)) and also described as resource productivity. Resource productivity rose from £1.63 of GVA per kg of RMC in 2001 to £1.89 in 2017. Resource productivity peaked at £1.95 in 2009, as a result of a sharp drop in raw material consumption relative to economic activity during the recession. It has since declined against this peak, but remains above pre-recession levels.
